>> Jen Kramer Next, let's talk about
the various types of technologies that
actually run in a web browser.
There are only three.
>> Jen Kramer Wherever your web browser
is located, whether that's on a phone,
a tablet, a desktop, a laptop,
your Internet powered refrigerator,
your game console, it doesn't matter.
There are only three technologies that
will run inside of a web browser and
those three technologies are HTML,
the HyperText Markup Language,
CSS, Cascading Style Sheets,
and JavaScript,
a scripting language that does all
kinds of cool things to a webpage.
That is it, that is all there is.
Everything else is a variation
on one of those things.
Let me tell you about each of those
technologies in just a little bit
more detail.
So the first technology to know about
is HTML, the Hypertext Markup Language.
All this particular technology does
is identify the parts of a webpage.
Where's the header?
Where's the footer?
Where are the paragraphs,
the lists, the headings?
What's emphasized?
All of that kind of stuff
is all baked into the HTML.
Notice, I did not say that it's green or
it's bold or anything like that.
All of that stuff has to
do with how the page looks.
HTML has nothing to do
with the page looks.
This is one of the very common
mistakes that are made by beginners.
They tend to think the HTML is responsible
for the way that a webpage looks.
CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets,
and it does dictate how the page looks.
If it has to do with anything that
has to do with being pretty or
the way the page looks,
it's probably something to do with CSS.
So things like colors and
fonts and layouts and spacing,
all of that kind of stuff
has to do with CSS.
And then finally, there is JavaScript.
And so,
JavaScript is a programming language
that is completely unrelated to Java.
I'll tell you more about that in a second.
But what JavaScript is going to do is it
will dictate how this page is interactive.
So if it's quote, interactive, there's
something that's happening on the webpage,
chances are it's JavaScript
that's powering that.
So whether things are moving, or
changing color or changing size or
appearing and disappearing,
something's being calculated,
that's almost all from JavaScript.
So, how did this name come about?
Well, it was sort of the mid 90s,
Java was actually a programming language.
It was very, very hot at the time and
in parallel, a guy named Mark Andrison who
worked for NetScape was interested
in adding some more interactivity.
He wrote a little scripting language.
He was looking for a name that would catch
on with the public and be kinda cool, so
he took Java, he stuck Script after it,
since this was a scripting language
instead of a compiled
programming language.
And thus, JavaScript is born.
So there is literally no connection
between Java and JavaScript.
That is one of the very most common
mistakes that beginners make as well,
they talk about Java,
it's not Java, it's JavaScript.
Now you might be wondering about some
other technologies that you heard about.
And that you're wondering,
what about these things like Bootstrap,
Responsive Design or WordPress?
These can all still be boiled
back to the same technologies.
Bootstrap is just HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript.
Responsive Design is HTML and CSS.
You can add some JavaScript if you want,
Responsive Design will work
with just HTML and CSS.
WordPress is a whole program
that is made up of HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript on the front end, and
there's also a database that's
running on the server end of things.
jQuery, React, Angular, Vue,
these are all very popular frameworks and
libraries that have to do with JavaScript.